microsoft-365/security/defender-endpoint/linux-install-with-ansible.md, before:

---
title: Deploy Microsoft Defender for Endpoint on Linux with Ansible
ms.reviewer: 
description: Describes how to deploy Microsoft Defender for Endpoint on Linux using Ansible.
keywords: microsoft, defender, Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, linux, installation, deploy, uninstallation, puppet, ansible, linux, redhat, ubuntu, debian, sles, suse, centos
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: m365-security
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: dansimp
author: dansimp
localization_priority: Normal
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection:
  - m365-security-compliance
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.technology: mde
---

# Deploy Microsoft Defender for Endpoint on Linux with Ansible

[!INCLUDE [Microsoft 365 Defender rebranding](../../includes/microsoft-defender.md)]


**Applies to:**
- [Microsoft Defender for Endpoint](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2154037)
- [Microsoft 365 Defender](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2118804)

> Want to experience Defender for Endpoint? [Sign up for a free trial.](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/windows/microsoft-defender-atp?ocid=docs-wdatp-investigateip-abovefoldlink)

This article describes how to deploy Defender for Endpoint on Linux using Ansible. A successful deployment requires the completion of all of the following tasks:

- [Download the onboarding package](#download-the-onboarding-package)
- [Create Ansible YAML files](#create-ansible-yaml-files)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
- [References](#references)

## Prerequisites and system requirements

Before you get started, see [the main Defender for Endpoint on Linux page](microsoft-defender-endpoint-linux.md) for a description of prerequisites and system requirements for the current software version.

In addition, for Ansible deployment, you need to be familiar with Ansible administration tasks, have Ansible configured, and know how to deploy playbooks and tasks. Ansible has many ways to complete the same task. These instructions assume availability of supported Ansible modules, such as *apt* and *unarchive* to help deploy the package. Your organization might use a different workflow. Refer to the [Ansible documentation](https://docs.ansible.com/) for details.

- Ansible needs to be installed on at least one computer (we will call it the primary computer).
- SSH must be configured for an administrator account between the primary computer and all clients, and it is recommended be configured with public key authentication.
- The following software must be installed on all clients:
  - curl
  - python-apt

- All hosts must be listed in the following format in the `/etc/ansible/hosts` or relevant file:

    ```bash
    [servers]
    host1 ansible_ssh_host=10.171.134.39
    host2 ansible_ssh_host=51.143.50.51
    ```

- Ping test:

    ```bash
    ansible -m ping all
    ```

## Download the onboarding package

Download the onboarding package from Microsoft Defender Security Center:

1. In Microsoft Defender Security Center, go to **Settings > Device Management > Onboarding**.
2. In the first drop-down menu, select **Linux Server** as the operating system. In the second drop-down menu, select **Your preferred Linux configuration management tool** as the deployment method.
3. Select **Download onboarding package**. Save the file as WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip.

    ![Microsoft Defender Security Center screenshot](images/atp-portal-onboarding-linux-2.png)

4. From a command prompt, verify that you have the file. Extract the contents of the archive:

    ```bash
    ls -l
    ```
    ```Output
    total 8
    -rw-r--r-- 1 test  staff  4984 Feb 18 11:22 WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip
    ```
    ```bash
    unzip WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip
    ```
    ```Output
    Archive:  WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip
    inflating: mdatp_onboard.json
    ```

## Create Ansible YAML files

Create a subtask or role files that contribute to an playbook or task.

- Create the onboarding task, `onboarding_setup.yml`:

    ```bash
    - name: Create MDATP directories
      file:
        path: /etc/opt/microsoft/mdatp/
        recurse: true
        state: directory
        mode: 0755
        owner: root
        group: root

    - name: Register mdatp_onboard.json
      stat:
        path: /etc/opt/microsoft/mdatp/mdatp_onboard.json
      register: mdatp_onboard

    - name: Extract WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip into /etc/opt/microsoft/mdatp
      unarchive:
        src: WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip
        dest: /etc/opt/microsoft/mdatp
        mode: 0600
        owner: root
        group: root
      when: not mdatp_onboard.stat.exists
    ```

- Add the Defender for Endpoint repository and key.

    Defender for Endpoint on Linux can be deployed from one of the following channels (denoted below as *[channel]*): *insiders-fast*, *insiders-slow*, or *prod*. Each of these channels corresponds to a Linux software repository.

    The choice of the channel determines the type and frequency of updates that are offered to your device. Devices in *insiders-fast* are the first ones to receive updates and new features, followed later by *insiders-slow* and lastly by *prod*.

    In order to preview new features and provide early feedback, it is recommended that you configure some devices in your enterprise to use either *insiders-fast* or *insiders-slow*.

    > [!WARNING]
    > Switching the channel after the initial installation requires the product to be reinstalled. To switch the product channel: uninstall the existing package, re-configure your device to use the new channel, and follow the steps in this document to install the package from the new location.

    Note your distribution and version and identify the closest entry for it under `https://packages.microsoft.com/config/`.

    In the following commands, replace *[distro]* and *[version]* with the information you've identified.

    > [!NOTE]
    > In case of Oracle Linux, replace *[distro]* with “rhel”.

  ```bash
  - name: Add Microsoft APT key
    apt_key:
      keyserver: https://packages.microsoft.com/
      id: BC528686B50D79E339D3721CEB3E94ADBE1229CF
    when: ansible_os_family == "Debian"

  - name: Add Microsoft apt repository for MDATP
    apt_repository:
      repo: deb [arch=arm64,armhf,amd64] https://packages.microsoft.com/[distro]/[version]/prod [channel] main
      update_cache: yes
      state: present
      filename: microsoft-[channel].list
    when: ansible_os_family == "Debian"

  - name: Add Microsoft DNF/YUM key
    rpm_key:
      state: present
      key: https://packages.microsoft.com/keys/microsoft.asc
    when: ansible_os_family == "RedHat"

  - name: Add  Microsoft yum repository for MDATP
    yum_repository:
      name: packages-microsoft-com-prod-[channel]
      description: Microsoft Defender for Endpoint
      file: microsoft-[channel]
      baseurl: https://packages.microsoft.com/[distro]/[version]/[channel]/
      gpgcheck: yes
      enabled: Yes
    when: ansible_os_family == "RedHat"
  ```

- Create the Ansible install and uninstall YAML files.

    - For apt-based distributions use the following YAML file:

        ```bash
        cat install_mdatp.yml
        ```
        ```Output
        - hosts: servers
          tasks:
            - include: ../roles/onboarding_setup.yml
            - include: ../roles/add_apt_repo.yml
            - name: Install MDATP
              apt:
                name: mdatp
                state: latest
                update_cache: yes
        ```

        ```bash
        cat uninstall_mdatp.yml
        ```
        ```Output
        - hosts: servers
          tasks:
            - name: Uninstall MDATP
              apt:
                name: mdatp
                state: absent
        ```

    - For dnf-based distributions use the following YAML file:

        ```bash
        cat install_mdatp_dnf.yml
        ```
        ```Output
        - hosts: servers
          tasks:
            - include: ../roles/onboarding_setup.yml
            - include: ../roles/add_yum_repo.yml
            - name: Install MDATP
              dnf:
                name: mdatp
                state: latest
                enablerepo: packages-microsoft-com-prod-[channel]
        ```

        ```bash
        cat uninstall_mdatp_dnf.yml
        ```
        ```Output
        - hosts: servers
          tasks:
            - name: Uninstall MDATP
              dnf:
                name: mdatp
                state: absent
        ```

## Deployment

Now run the tasks files under `/etc/ansible/playbooks/` or relevant directory.

- Installation:

    ```bash
    ansible-playbook /etc/ansible/playbooks/install_mdatp.yml -i /etc/ansible/hosts
    ```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> When the product starts for the first time, it downloads the latest antimalware definitions. Depending on your Internet connection, this can take up to a few minutes.

- Validation/configuration:

    ```bash
    ansible -m shell -a 'mdatp connectivity test' all
    ```
    ```bash
    ansible -m shell -a 'mdatp health' all
    ```

- Uninstallation:

    ```bash
    ansible-playbook /etc/ansible/playbooks/uninstall_mdatp.yml -i /etc/ansible/hosts
    ```

## Log installation issues

See [Log installation issues](linux-resources.md#log-installation-issues) for more information on how to find the automatically generated log that is created by the installer when an error occurs.

## Operating system upgrades

When upgrading your operating system to a new major version, you must first uninstall Defender for Endpoint on Linux, install the upgrade, and finally reconfigure Defender for Endpoint on Linux on your device.

## References

- [Add or remove YUM repositories](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/collections/ansible/builtin/yum_repository_module.html)

- [Manage packages with the dnf package manager](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/collections/ansible/builtin/dnf_module.html)

- [Add and remove APT repositories](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/collections/ansible/builtin/apt_repository_module.html)

- [Manage apt-packages](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/collections/ansible/builtin/apt_module.html)

Commit message:

Updates to use Ansible terminology
Replaces primary computer with control node, client with managed node, and host with managed node. All per https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/network/getting_started/basic_concepts.html.

microsoft-365/security/defender-endpoint/linux-install-with-ansible.md, after:

---
title: Deploy Microsoft Defender for Endpoint on Linux with Ansible
ms.reviewer: 
description: Describes how to deploy Microsoft Defender for Endpoint on Linux using Ansible.
keywords: microsoft, defender, Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, linux, installation, deploy, uninstallation, puppet, ansible, linux, redhat, ubuntu, debian, sles, suse, centos
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: m365-security
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: dansimp
author: dansimp
localization_priority: Normal
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection:
  - m365-security-compliance
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.technology: mde
---

# Deploy Microsoft Defender for Endpoint on Linux with Ansible

[!INCLUDE [Microsoft 365 Defender rebranding](../../includes/microsoft-defender.md)]


**Applies to:**
- [Microsoft Defender for Endpoint](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2154037)
- [Microsoft 365 Defender](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2118804)

> Want to experience Defender for Endpoint? [Sign up for a free trial.](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/windows/microsoft-defender-atp?ocid=docs-wdatp-investigateip-abovefoldlink)

This article describes how to deploy Defender for Endpoint on Linux using Ansible. A successful deployment requires the completion of all of the following tasks:

- [Download the onboarding package](#download-the-onboarding-package)
- [Create Ansible YAML files](#create-ansible-yaml-files)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
- [References](#references)

## Prerequisites and system requirements

Before you get started, see [the main Defender for Endpoint on Linux page](microsoft-defender-endpoint-linux.md) for a description of prerequisites and system requirements for the current software version.

In addition, for Ansible deployment, you need to be familiar with Ansible administration tasks, have Ansible configured, and know how to deploy playbooks and tasks. Ansible has many ways to complete the same task. These instructions assume availability of supported Ansible modules, such as *apt* and *unarchive* to help deploy the package. Your organization might use a different workflow. Refer to the [Ansible documentation](https://docs.ansible.com/) for details.

- Ansible needs to be installed on at least one computer (Ansible calls this the control node).
- SSH must be configured for an administrator account between the control node and all managed nodes (machines that will have Defender installed on them), and it is recommended be configured with public key authentication.
- The following software must be installed on all managed nodes:
  - curl
  - python-apt

- All managed nodes must be listed in the following format in the `/etc/ansible/hosts` or relevant file:

    ```bash
    [servers]
    host1 ansible_ssh_host=10.171.134.39
    host2 ansible_ssh_host=51.143.50.51
    ```

- Ping test:

    ```bash
    ansible -m ping all
    ```

## Download the onboarding package

Download the onboarding package from Microsoft Defender Security Center:

1. In Microsoft Defender Security Center, go to **Settings > Device Management > Onboarding**.
2. In the first drop-down menu, select **Linux Server** as the operating system. In the second drop-down menu, select **Your preferred Linux configuration management tool** as the deployment method.
3. Select **Download onboarding package**. Save the file as WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip.

    ![Microsoft Defender Security Center screenshot](images/atp-portal-onboarding-linux-2.png)

4. From a command prompt, verify that you have the file. Extract the contents of the archive:

    ```bash
    ls -l
    ```
    ```Output
    total 8
    -rw-r--r-- 1 test  staff  4984 Feb 18 11:22 WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip
    ```
    ```bash
    unzip WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip
    ```
    ```Output
    Archive:  WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip
    inflating: mdatp_onboard.json
    ```

## Create Ansible YAML files

Create a subtask or role files that contribute to an playbook or task.

- Create the onboarding task, `onboarding_setup.yml`:

    ```bash
    - name: Create MDATP directories
      file:
        path: /etc/opt/microsoft/mdatp/
        recurse: true
        state: directory
        mode: 0755
        owner: root
        group: root

    - name: Register mdatp_onboard.json
      stat:
        path: /etc/opt/microsoft/mdatp/mdatp_onboard.json
      register: mdatp_onboard

    - name: Extract WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip into /etc/opt/microsoft/mdatp
      unarchive:
        src: WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip
        dest: /etc/opt/microsoft/mdatp
        mode: 0600
        owner: root
        group: root
      when: not mdatp_onboard.stat.exists
    ```

- Add the Defender for Endpoint repository and key.

    Defender for Endpoint on Linux can be deployed from one of the following channels (denoted below as *[channel]*): *insiders-fast*, *insiders-slow*, or *prod*. Each of these channels corresponds to a Linux software repository.

    The choice of the channel determines the type and frequency of updates that are offered to your device. Devices in *insiders-fast* are the first ones to receive updates and new features, followed later by *insiders-slow* and lastly by *prod*.

    In order to preview new features and provide early feedback, it is recommended that you configure some devices in your enterprise to use either *insiders-fast* or *insiders-slow*.

    > [!WARNING]
    > Switching the channel after the initial installation requires the product to be reinstalled. To switch the product channel: uninstall the existing package, re-configure your device to use the new channel, and follow the steps in this document to install the package from the new location.

    Note your distribution and version and identify the closest entry for it under `https://packages.microsoft.com/config/`.

    In the following commands, replace *[distro]* and *[version]* with the information you've identified.

    > [!NOTE]
    > In case of Oracle Linux, replace *[distro]* with “rhel”.

  ```bash
  - name: Add Microsoft APT key
    apt_key:
      keyserver: https://packages.microsoft.com/
      id: BC528686B50D79E339D3721CEB3E94ADBE1229CF
    when: ansible_os_family == "Debian"

  - name: Add Microsoft apt repository for MDATP
    apt_repository:
      repo: deb [arch=arm64,armhf,amd64] https://packages.microsoft.com/[distro]/[version]/prod [channel] main
      update_cache: yes
      state: present
      filename: microsoft-[channel].list
    when: ansible_os_family == "Debian"

  - name: Add Microsoft DNF/YUM key
    rpm_key:
      state: present
      key: https://packages.microsoft.com/keys/microsoft.asc
    when: ansible_os_family == "RedHat"

  - name: Add  Microsoft yum repository for MDATP
    yum_repository:
      name: packages-microsoft-com-prod-[channel]
      description: Microsoft Defender for Endpoint
      file: microsoft-[channel]
      baseurl: https://packages.microsoft.com/[distro]/[version]/[channel]/
      gpgcheck: yes
      enabled: Yes
    when: ansible_os_family == "RedHat"
  ```

- Create the Ansible install and uninstall YAML files.

    - For apt-based distributions use the following YAML file:

        ```bash
        cat install_mdatp.yml
        ```
        ```Output
        - hosts: servers
          tasks:
            - include: ../roles/onboarding_setup.yml
            - include: ../roles/add_apt_repo.yml
            - name: Install MDATP
              apt:
                name: mdatp
                state: latest
                update_cache: yes
        ```

        ```bash
        cat uninstall_mdatp.yml
        ```
        ```Output
        - hosts: servers
          tasks:
            - name: Uninstall MDATP
              apt:
                name: mdatp
                state: absent
        ```

    - For dnf-based distributions use the following YAML file:

        ```bash
        cat install_mdatp_dnf.yml
        ```
        ```Output
        - hosts: servers
          tasks:
            - include: ../roles/onboarding_setup.yml
            - include: ../roles/add_yum_repo.yml
            - name: Install MDATP
              dnf:
                name: mdatp
                state: latest
                enablerepo: packages-microsoft-com-prod-[channel]
        ```

        ```bash
        cat uninstall_mdatp_dnf.yml
        ```
        ```Output
        - hosts: servers
          tasks:
            - name: Uninstall MDATP
              dnf:
                name: mdatp
                state: absent
        ```

## Deployment

Now run the tasks files under `/etc/ansible/playbooks/` or relevant directory.

- Installation:

    ```bash
    ansible-playbook /etc/ansible/playbooks/install_mdatp.yml -i /etc/ansible/hosts
    ```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> When the product starts for the first time, it downloads the latest antimalware definitions. Depending on your Internet connection, this can take up to a few minutes.

- Validation/configuration:

    ```bash
    ansible -m shell -a 'mdatp connectivity test' all
    ```
    ```bash
    ansible -m shell -a 'mdatp health' all
    ```

- Uninstallation:

    ```bash
    ansible-playbook /etc/ansible/playbooks/uninstall_mdatp.yml -i /etc/ansible/hosts
    ```

## Log installation issues

See [Log installation issues](linux-resources.md#log-installation-issues) for more information on how to find the automatically generated log that is created by the installer when an error occurs.

## Operating system upgrades

When upgrading your operating system to a new major version, you must first uninstall Defender for Endpoint on Linux, install the upgrade, and finally reconfigure Defender for Endpoint on Linux on your device.

## References

- [Add or remove YUM repositories](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/collections/ansible/builtin/yum_repository_module.html)

- [Manage packages with the dnf package manager](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/collections/ansible/builtin/dnf_module.html)

- [Add and remove APT repositories](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/collections/ansible/builtin/apt_repository_module.html)

- [Manage apt-packages](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/collections/ansible/builtin/apt_module.html)
