microsoft-365/security/defender-endpoint/linux-static-proxy-configuration.md, before:

---
title: Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux static proxy discovery
ms.reviewer: 
description: Describes how to configure Microsoft Defender ATP for static proxy discovery.
keywords: microsoft, defender, atp, linux, installation, proxy
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: m365-security
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: dansimp
author: dansimp
localization_priority: Normal
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: 
  - m365-security-compliance
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.technology: mde
---

# Configure Microsoft Defender for Endpoint on Linux for static proxy discovery

[!INCLUDE [Microsoft 365 Defender rebranding](../../includes/microsoft-defender.md)]


**Applies to:**
- [Microsoft Defender for Endpoint](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2154037)
- [Microsoft 365 Defender](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2118804)

> Want to experience Defender for Endpoint? [Sign up for a free trial.](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/windows/microsoft-defender-atp?ocid=docs-wdatp-investigateip-abovefoldlink)

Microsoft Defender ATP can discover a proxy server using the ```HTTPS_PROXY``` environment variable. This setting must be configured **both** at installation time and after the product has been installed.

## Installation time configuration

During installation, the ```HTTPS_PROXY``` environment variable must be passed to the package manager. The package manager can read this variable in any of the following ways:

- The ```HTTPS_PROXY``` variable is defined in ```/etc/environment``` with the following line:

    ```bash
    HTTPS_PROXY="http://proxy.server:port/"
    ```

- The `HTTPS_PROXY` variable is defined in the package manager global configuration. For example, in Ubuntu 18.04, you can add the following line to `/etc/apt/apt.conf.d/proxy.conf`:
  
    ```bash
    Acquire::https::Proxy "http://proxy.server:port/";
    ```

    > [!CAUTION]
    > Note that above two methods could define the proxy to use for other applications on your system. Use this method with caution, or only if this is meant to be a generally global configuration.
  
- The `HTTPS_PROXY` variable is prepended to the installation or uninstallation commands. For example, with the APT package manager, prepend the variable as follows when installing Microsoft Defender for Endpoint: 

    ```bash  
    HTTPS_PROXY="http://proxy.server:port/" apt install mdatp
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > Do not add sudo between the environment variable definition and apt, otherwise the variable will not be propagated.

The `HTTPS_PROXY` environment variable may similarly be defined during uninstallation.

Note that installation and uninstallation will not necessarily fail if a proxy is required but not configured. However, telemetry will not be submitted, and the operation could take much longer due to network timeouts.

## Post installation configuration
  
After installation, the `HTTPS_PROXY` environment variable must be defined in the Defender for Endpoint service file. To do this, open `/lib/systemd/system/mdatp.service` in a text editor while running as the root user. You can then propagate the variable to the service in one of two ways:

- Uncomment the line `#Environment="HTTPS_PROXY=http://address:port"` and specify your static proxy address.

- Add a line `EnvironmentFile=/path/to/env/file`. This path can point to `/etc/environment` or a custom file, either of which needs to add the following line:
  
    ```bash
    HTTPS_PROXY="http://proxy.server:port/"
    ```

After modifying the `mdatp.service` file, save and close it. Restart the service so the changes can be applied. In Ubuntu, this involves two commands:  

```bash
systemctl daemon-reload; systemctl restart mdatp
```

Commit message:

atp > for endpoint rebrand pt 5

microsoft-365/security/defender-endpoint/linux-static-proxy-configuration.md, after:

---
title: Microsoft Defender for Endpoint on Linux static proxy discovery
ms.reviewer: 
description: Describes how to configure Microsoft Defender for Endpoint on Linux, for static proxy discovery.
keywords: microsoft, defender, atp, linux, installation, proxy
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: m365-security
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: dansimp
author: dansimp
localization_priority: Normal
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: 
  - m365-security-compliance
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.technology: mde
---

# Configure Microsoft Defender for Endpoint on Linux for static proxy discovery

[!INCLUDE [Microsoft 365 Defender rebranding](../../includes/microsoft-defender.md)]


**Applies to:**
- [Microsoft Defender for Endpoint](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2154037)
- [Microsoft 365 Defender](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2118804)

> Want to experience Defender for Endpoint? [Sign up for a free trial.](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/windows/microsoft-defender-atp?ocid=docs-wdatp-investigateip-abovefoldlink)

Microsoft Defender for Endpoint can discover a proxy server using the ```HTTPS_PROXY``` environment variable. This setting must be configured **both** at installation time and after the product has been installed.

## Installation time configuration

During installation, the ```HTTPS_PROXY``` environment variable must be passed to the package manager. The package manager can read this variable in any of the following ways:

- The ```HTTPS_PROXY``` variable is defined in ```/etc/environment``` with the following line:

    ```bash
    HTTPS_PROXY="http://proxy.server:port/"
    ```

- The `HTTPS_PROXY` variable is defined in the package manager global configuration. For example, in Ubuntu 18.04, you can add the following line to `/etc/apt/apt.conf.d/proxy.conf`:
  
    ```bash
    Acquire::https::Proxy "http://proxy.server:port/";
    ```

    > [!CAUTION]
    > Note that above two methods could define the proxy to use for other applications on your system. Use this method with caution, or only if this is meant to be a generally global configuration.
  
- The `HTTPS_PROXY` variable is prepended to the installation or uninstallation commands. For example, with the APT package manager, prepend the variable as follows when installing Microsoft Defender for Endpoint: 

    ```bash  
    HTTPS_PROXY="http://proxy.server:port/" apt install mdatp
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > Do not add sudo between the environment variable definition and apt, otherwise the variable will not be propagated.

The `HTTPS_PROXY` environment variable may similarly be defined during uninstallation.

Note that installation and uninstallation will not necessarily fail if a proxy is required but not configured. However, telemetry will not be submitted, and the operation could take much longer due to network timeouts.

## Post installation configuration
  
After installation, the `HTTPS_PROXY` environment variable must be defined in the Defender for Endpoint service file. To do this, open `/lib/systemd/system/mdatp.service` in a text editor while running as the root user. You can then propagate the variable to the service in one of two ways:

- Uncomment the line `#Environment="HTTPS_PROXY=http://address:port"` and specify your static proxy address.

- Add a line `EnvironmentFile=/path/to/env/file`. This path can point to `/etc/environment` or a custom file, either of which needs to add the following line:
  
    ```bash
    HTTPS_PROXY="http://proxy.server:port/"
    ```

After modifying the `mdatp.service` file, save and close it. Restart the service so the changes can be applied. In Ubuntu, this involves two commands:  

```bash
systemctl daemon-reload; systemctl restart mdatp
```
