defender-office-365/user-tags.md, before:

---
title: User tags in Microsoft Defender for Office 365
f1.keywords: 
  - NOCSH
ms.author: chrisda
author: chrisda
manager: dansimp
ms.date: 
audience: ITPro
ms.topic: how-to

localization_priority: Normal
search.appverid: 
  - MET150
ms.collection: 
  - M365-security-compliance
description: Admins can learn how to identify specific groups of users with user tags in Microsoft Defender for Office 365 Plan 2. Tag filtering is available across alerts, reports, and investigations in Microsoft Defender for Office 365 to quickly identify the tagged users.
ms.technology: mdo
ms.prod: m365-security
---

# User tags in Microsoft Defender for Office 365

> [!NOTE]
> The user tags feature is in Preview, isn't available to everyone, and is subject to change. For information about the release schedule, check out the [Microsoft 365 roadmap](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/roadmap).

User tags are identifiers for specific groups of users in [Microsoft Defender for Office 365](defender-for-office-365.md). There are two types of user tags:

- **System tags**: Currently, [Priority accounts](../../admin/setup/priority-accounts.md) is the only type of system tag.
- **Custom tags**: You create these user tags yourself.

If your organization has Defender for Office 365 Plan 2 (included in your subscription or as an add-on), you can create custom user tags in addition to using the priority accounts tag.

After you apply system tags or custom tags to users, you can use those tags as filters in alerts, reports, and investigations:

- [Alerts in the Security & Compliance Center](alerts.md)
- [Threat Explorer and real-time detections](threat-explorer.md)
- [Threat protection status report](view-email-security-reports.md#threat-protection-status-report)
- [Campaign Views](campaigns.md)
- For priority accounts, you can use the [Email issues for priority accounts report](/exchange/monitoring/mail-flow-reports/mfr-email-issues-for-priority-accounts-report) in the Exchange admin center (EAC).

This article explains how to configure user tags in the Security & Compliance Center. There are no cmdlets in Security & Compliance Center to manage user tags.

To see how user tags are part of the strategy to help protect high-impact user accounts, see [Security recommendations for priority accounts in Microsoft 365](security-recommendations-for-priority-accounts.md).

## What do you need to know before you begin?

- You open the Security & Compliance Center at <https://protection.office.com/>. To go directly to the **User tags** page, open <https://protection.office.com/userTags>.

- You need to be assigned permissions in the Security & Compliance Center before you can do the procedures in this article:
  - To create, modify, and delete user tags, you need to be a member of the **Organization Management** or **Security Administrator** role groups.
  - To add and remove members from existing user tags, you need to be a member of the **Organization Management**, **Security Administrator**, or **Security Operator** role groups
  - For read-only access to user tags, you need to be a member of the **Global Reader** or **Security Reader** role groups.

  For more information, see [Permissions in the Security & Compliance Center](permissions-in-the-security-and-compliance-center.md).

  **Notes**:

  - Adding users to the corresponding Azure Active Directory role in the Microsoft 365 admin center gives users the required permissions in the Security & Compliance Center _and_ permissions for other features in Microsoft 365. For more information, see [About admin roles](../../admin/add-users/about-admin-roles.md).
  - User tag management is controlled by the **Tag Reader** and **Tag Manager** roles.

- You can also manage and monitor priority accounts in the Microsoft 365 admin center. For instructions, see [Manage and monitor priority accounts](../../admin/setup/priority-accounts.md).

## Use the Security & Compliance Center to create user tags

1. In the Security & Compliance Center, go to **Threat management** \> **User tags**.

2. On the **User tags** page that opens, click **Create tag**.

3. The **Create tag** wizard opens in a new fly out. On the **Define tag** page, configure the following settings:
   - **Name**: Enter a unique, descriptive name for the tag. This is the value that you'll see and use.
   - **Description**: Enter an optional description for the tag.

   When you're finished, click **Next**.

4. On the **Assign users** page, do either of the following steps:

   - Click **Add users**. In the fly out that appears, do any of the following steps to add individual users or groups:
     - Click in the box and scroll through the list to select a user or group.
     - Click in the box and start typing to filter the list and select a user or group.
     - To add additional values, click in an empty area in the box.
     - To remove individual entries from the box, click **Remove** ![Remove icon](../../media/scc-remove-icon.png) on the user or group in the box.
     - To remove existing entries from the list below the box, click **Remove** ![Remove icon](../../media/scc-remove-icon.png) the entry.

     When you're finished, click **Add**.

   - Click **Import** to select a text file that contains the email addresses of the users or groups. Be sure the text file contains one entry per line.

   When you're finished, click **Next**.

5. On the **Review tag** page, review your settings. You can click **Edit** in the specific section to make changes.

   When you're finished, click **Submit**.

## Use the Security & Compliance Center to view user tags

1. In the Security & Compliance Center, go to **Threat management** \> **User tags**.

2. On the **User tags** page that opens, select the user tag that you want to view (don't click on the checkbox).

3. In the read-only details fly out that appears, review the settings.

   When you're finished, click **Close**.

## Use the Security & Compliance Center to modify user tags

1. In the Security & Compliance Center, go to **Threat management** \> **User tags**.

2. On the **User tags** page that opens, select the user tag that you want to view, and then click **Edit tag**.

3. The policy wizard opens in an **Edit tag** fly out. Click **Next** to review and modify the settings.

   When you're finished, click **Submit**.

## Use the Security & Compliance Center to remove user tags

**Note**: You can't remove the built-in **Priority account** tag.

1. In the Security & Compliance Center, go to **Threat management** \> **User tags**.

2. On the **User tags** page that opens, select the user tag that you want to remove, click **Delete tag**, and then select **Yes, remove** in the warning that appears.

Commit message:

Added information from customer interactions

defender-office-365/user-tags.md, after:

---
title: User tags in Microsoft Defender for Office 365
f1.keywords: 
  - NOCSH
ms.author: chrisda
author: chrisda
manager: dansimp
ms.date: 
audience: ITPro
ms.topic: how-to

localization_priority: Normal
search.appverid: 
  - MET150
ms.collection: 
  - M365-security-compliance
description: Admins can learn how to identify specific groups of users with user tags in Microsoft Defender for Office 365 Plan 2. Tag filtering is available across alerts, reports, and investigations in Microsoft Defender for Office 365 to quickly identify the tagged users.
ms.technology: mdo
ms.prod: m365-security
---

# User tags in Microsoft Defender for Office 365

> [!NOTE]
> The user tags feature is in Preview, isn't available to everyone, and is subject to change. For information about the release schedule, check out the [Microsoft 365 roadmap](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/roadmap).

User tags are identifiers for specific groups of users in [Microsoft Defender for Office 365](defender-for-office-365.md). There are two types of user tags:

- **System tags**: Currently, [Priority accounts](../../admin/setup/priority-accounts.md) is the only type of system tag.
- **Custom tags**: You create these user tags yourself.

If your organization has Defender for Office 365 Plan 2 (included in your subscription or as an add-on), you can create custom user tags in addition to using the priority accounts tag.

> [!NOTE]
> Currently, you can only apply user tags to mailbox users.

After you apply system tags or custom tags to users, you can use those tags as filters in alerts, reports, and investigations:

- [Alerts in the Security & Compliance Center](alerts.md)
- [Threat Explorer and real-time detections](threat-explorer.md)
- [Threat protection status report](view-email-security-reports.md#threat-protection-status-report)
- [Campaign Views](campaigns.md)
- For priority accounts, you can use the [Email issues for priority accounts report](/exchange/monitoring/mail-flow-reports/mfr-email-issues-for-priority-accounts-report) in the Exchange admin center (EAC).

This article explains how to configure user tags in the Security & Compliance Center. There are no cmdlets in Security & Compliance Center to manage user tags.

To see how user tags are part of the strategy to help protect high-impact user accounts, see [Security recommendations for priority accounts in Microsoft 365](security-recommendations-for-priority-accounts.md).

## What do you need to know before you begin?

- You open the Security & Compliance Center at <https://protection.office.com/>. To go directly to the **User tags** page, open <https://protection.office.com/userTags>.

- You need to be assigned permissions in the Security & Compliance Center before you can do the procedures in this article:
  - To create, modify, and delete user tags, you need to be a member of the **Organization Management** or **Security Administrator** role groups.
  - To add and remove members from existing user tags, you need to be a member of the **Organization Management**, **Security Administrator**, or **Security Operator** role groups
  - For read-only access to user tags, you need to be a member of the **Global Reader** or **Security Reader** role groups.

  For more information, see [Permissions in the Security & Compliance Center](permissions-in-the-security-and-compliance-center.md).

  **Notes**:

  - Adding users to the corresponding Azure Active Directory role in the Microsoft 365 admin center gives users the required permissions in the Security & Compliance Center _and_ permissions for other features in Microsoft 365. For more information, see [About admin roles](../../admin/add-users/about-admin-roles.md).
  - User tag management is controlled by the **Tag Reader** and **Tag Manager** roles.

- You can also manage and monitor priority accounts in the Microsoft 365 admin center. For instructions, see [Manage and monitor priority accounts](../../admin/setup/priority-accounts.md).

- For information about securing _privileged accounts_ (admin accounts), see [this topic](/azure/architecture/framework/security/critical-impact-accounts).

## Use the Security & Compliance Center to create user tags

1. In the Security & Compliance Center, go to **Threat management** \> **User tags**.

2. On the **User tags** page that opens, click **Create tag**.

3. The **Create tag** wizard opens in a new fly out. On the **Define tag** page, configure the following settings:
   - **Name**: Enter a unique, descriptive name for the tag. This is the value that you'll see and use.
   - **Description**: Enter an optional description for the tag.

   When you're finished, click **Next**.

4. On the **Assign users** page, do either of the following steps:

   - Click **Add users**. In the fly out that appears, do any of the following steps to add individual users or groups:
     - Click in the box and scroll through the list to select a user or group.
     - Click in the box and start typing to filter the list and select a user or group.
     - To add additional values, click in an empty area in the box.
     - To remove individual entries from the box, click **Remove** ![Remove icon](../../media/scc-remove-icon.png) on the user or group in the box.
     - To remove existing entries from the list below the box, click **Remove** ![Remove icon](../../media/scc-remove-icon.png) the entry.

     When you're finished, click **Add**.

   - Click **Import** to select a text file that contains the email addresses of the users or groups. Be sure the text file contains one entry per line.

   When you're finished, click **Next**.

5. On the **Review tag** page, review your settings. You can click **Edit** in the specific section to make changes.

   When you're finished, click **Submit**.

## Use the Security & Compliance Center to view user tags

1. In the Security & Compliance Center, go to **Threat management** \> **User tags**.

2. On the **User tags** page that opens, select the user tag that you want to view (don't click on the checkbox).

3. In the read-only details fly out that appears, review the settings.

   When you're finished, click **Close**.

## Use the Security & Compliance Center to modify user tags

1. In the Security & Compliance Center, go to **Threat management** \> **User tags**.

2. On the **User tags** page that opens, select the user tag that you want to view, and then click **Edit tag**.

3. The policy wizard opens in an **Edit tag** fly out. Click **Next** to review and modify the settings.

   When you're finished, click **Submit**.

## Use the Security & Compliance Center to remove user tags

**Note**: You can't remove the built-in **Priority account** tag.

1. In the Security & Compliance Center, go to **Threat management** \> **User tags**.

2. On the **User tags** page that opens, select the user tag that you want to remove, click **Delete tag**, and then select **Yes, remove** in the warning that appears.
